README.md, before:

<h1>TD-MPC2</span></h1>

Official implementation of

[TD-MPC2: Scalable, Robust World Models for Continuous Control](https://nicklashansen.github.io/td-mpc2) by

[Nicklas Hansen](https://nicklashansen.github.io/), [Hao Su](https://cseweb.ucsd.edu/~haosu/)\*, [Xiaolong Wang](https://xiaolonw.github.io/)\* (UC San Diego)</br>

<img src="assets/0.gif" width="12.5%"><img src="assets/1.gif" width="12.5%"><img src="assets/2.gif" width="12.5%"><img src="assets/3.gif" width="12.5%"><img src="assets/4.gif" width="12.5%"><img src="assets/5.gif" width="12.5%"><img src="assets/6.gif" width="12.5%"><img src="assets/7.gif" width="12.5%"></br>

[[Website]](https://nicklashansen.github.io/td-mpc2) [[Paper]](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.16828) [[Models]](https://nicklashansen.github.io/td-mpc2/models)  [[Dataset]](https://nicklashansen.github.io/td-mpc2/dataset)

----

## Overview

TD-MPC**2** is a scalable, robust model-based reinforcement learning algorithm. It compares favorably to existing model-free and model-based methods across **104** continuous control tasks spanning multiple domains, with a *single* set of hyperparameters (*right*). We further demonstrate the scalability of TD-MPC**2** by training a single 317M parameter agent to perform **80** tasks across multiple domains, embodiments, and action spaces (*left*). 

<img src="assets/8.png" width="100%" style="max-width: 640px"><br/>

This repository contains code for training and evaluating both single-task online RL and multi-task offline RL TD-MPC**2** agents. We additionally open-source **300+** [model checkpoints](https://nicklashansen.github.io/td-mpc2/models) (including 12 multi-task models) across 4 task domains: [DMControl](https://arxiv.org/abs/1801.00690), [Meta-World](https://meta-world.github.io/), [ManiSkill2](https://maniskill2.github.io/), and [MyoSuite](https://sites.google.com/view/myosuite), as well as our [30-task and 80-task datasets](https://nicklashansen.github.io/td-mpc2/dataset) used to train the multi-task models. Our codebase supports both state and pixel observations. We hope that this repository will serve as a useful community resource for future research on model-based RL.

----

## Getting started

You will need a machine with a GPU and at least 12 GB of RAM for single-task online RL with TD-MPC**2**, and 128 GB of RAM for multi-task offline RL on our provided 80-task dataset. A GPU with at least 8 GB of memory is recommended for single-task online RL and for evaluation of the provided multi-task models (up to 317M parameters). Training of the 317M parameter model requires a GPU with at least 24 GB of memory.

We provide a `Dockerfile` for easy installation. You can build the docker image by running

```
cd docker && docker build . -t <user>/tdmpc2:0.1.0
```

If you prefer to install dependencies manually, start by installing dependencies via `conda` by running one of the following commands:

```
conda env create -f docker/environment.yaml
conda env create -f docker/environment_minimal.yaml
```

The `environment.yaml` file installs dependencies required for all environments, whereas `environment_minimal.yaml` only installs dependencies for training on DMControl tasks.

If you want to run ManiSkill2, you will additionally need to download and link the necessary assets by running

```
python -m mani_skill2.utils.download_asset all
```

which downloads assets to `./data`. You may move these assets to any location. Then, add the following line to your `~/.bashrc`:

```
export MS2_ASSET_DIR=<path>/<to>/<data>
```

and restart your terminal. Meta-World additionally requires MuJoCo 2.1.0. We host the unrestricted MuJoCo 2.1.0 license (courtesy of Google DeepMind) at [https://www.tdmpc2.com/files/mjkey.txt](https://www.tdmpc2.com/files/mjkey.txt). You can download the license by running

```
wget https://www.tdmpc2.com/files/mjkey.txt -O ~/.mujoco/mjkey.txt
```

See `docker/Dockerfile` for installation instructions if you do not already have MuJoCo 2.1.0 installed. MyoSuite requires `gym==0.13.0` which is incompatible with Meta-World and ManiSkill2. Install separately with `pip install myosuite` if desired. Depending on your existing system packages, you may need to install other dependencies. See `docker/Dockerfile` for a list of recommended system packages.

----

## Supported tasks

This codebase currently supports **104** continuous control tasks from **DMControl**, **Meta-World**, **ManiSkill2**, and **MyoSuite**. Specifically, it supports 39 tasks from DMControl (including 11 custom tasks), 50 tasks from Meta-World, 5 tasks from ManiSkill2, and 10 tasks from MyoSuite, and covers all tasks used in the paper. See below table for expected name formatting for each task domain:

| domain | task
| --- | --- |
| dmcontrol | dog-run
| dmcontrol | cheetah-run-backwards
| metaworld | mw-assembly
| metaworld | mw-pick-place-wall
| maniskill | pick-cube
| maniskill | pick-ycb
| myosuite  | myo-key-turn
| myosuite  | myo-key-turn-hard

which can be run by specifying the `task` argument for `evaluation.py`. Multi-task training and evaluation is specified by setting `task=mt80` or `task=mt30` for the 80-task and 30-task sets, respectively.

**As of Dec 27, 2023 the TD-MPC2 codebase also supports pixel observations for DMControl tasks**; use argument `obs=rgb` if you wish to train visual policies.


## Example usage

We provide examples on how to evaluate our provided TD-MPC**2** checkpoints, as well as how to train your own TD-MPC**2** agents, below.

### Evaluation

See below examples on how to evaluate downloaded single-task and multi-task checkpoints.

```
$ python evaluate.py task=mt80 model_size=48 checkpoint=/path/to/mt80-48M.pt
$ python evaluate.py task=mt30 model_size=317 checkpoint=/path/to/mt30-317M.pt
$ python evaluate.py task=dog-run checkpoint=/path/to/dog-1.pt save_video=true
```

All single-task checkpoints expect `model_size=5`. Multi-task checkpoints are available in multiple model sizes. Available arguments are `model_size={1, 5, 19, 48, 317}`. Note that single-task evaluation of multi-task checkpoints is currently not supported. See `config.yaml` for a full list of arguments.

### Training

See below examples on how to train TD-MPC**2** on a single task (online RL) and on multi-task datasets (offline RL). We recommend configuring [Weights and Biases](https://wandb.ai) (`wandb`) in `config.yaml` to track training progress.

```
$ python train.py task=mt80 model_size=48 batch_size=1024
$ python train.py task=mt30 model_size=317 batch_size=1024
$ python train.py task=dog-run steps=7000000
$ python train.py task=walker-walk obs=rgb
```

We recommend using default hyperparameters for single-task online RL, including the default model size of 5M parameters (`model_size=5`). Multi-task offline RL benefits from a larger model size, but larger models are also increasingly costly to train and evaluate. Available arguments are `model_size={1, 5, 19, 48, 317}`. See `config.yaml` for a full list of arguments.

----

## Citation

If you find our work useful, please consider citing the paper as follows:

```
@misc{hansen2023tdmpc2,
	title={TD-MPC2: Scalable, Robust World Models for Continuous Control}, 
	author={Nicklas Hansen and Hao Su and Xiaolong Wang},
	year={2023},
	eprint={2310.16828},
	archivePrefix={arXiv},
	primaryClass={cs.LG}
}
```

----

## Contributing

You are very welcome to contribute to this project. Feel free to open an issue or pull request if you have any suggestions or bug reports, but please review our [guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) first. Our goal is to build a codebase that can easily be extended to new environments and tasks, and we would love to hear about your experience!

----

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the `LICENSE` file for details. Note that the repository relies on third-party code, which is subject to their respective licenses.

Commit message:

add instructions for distributed training

README.md, after:

<h1>TD-MPC2</span></h1>

Official implementation of

[TD-MPC2: Scalable, Robust World Models for Continuous Control](https://nicklashansen.github.io/td-mpc2) by

[Nicklas Hansen](https://nicklashansen.github.io/), [Hao Su](https://cseweb.ucsd.edu/~haosu/)\*, [Xiaolong Wang](https://xiaolonw.github.io/)\* (UC San Diego)</br>

<img src="assets/0.gif" width="12.5%"><img src="assets/1.gif" width="12.5%"><img src="assets/2.gif" width="12.5%"><img src="assets/3.gif" width="12.5%"><img src="assets/4.gif" width="12.5%"><img src="assets/5.gif" width="12.5%"><img src="assets/6.gif" width="12.5%"><img src="assets/7.gif" width="12.5%"></br>

[[Website]](https://nicklashansen.github.io/td-mpc2) [[Paper]](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.16828) [[Models]](https://nicklashansen.github.io/td-mpc2/models)  [[Dataset]](https://nicklashansen.github.io/td-mpc2/dataset)

----

## Overview

TD-MPC**2** is a scalable, robust model-based reinforcement learning algorithm. It compares favorably to existing model-free and model-based methods across **104** continuous control tasks spanning multiple domains, with a *single* set of hyperparameters (*right*). We further demonstrate the scalability of TD-MPC**2** by training a single 317M parameter agent to perform **80** tasks across multiple domains, embodiments, and action spaces (*left*). 

<img src="assets/8.png" width="100%" style="max-width: 640px"><br/>

This repository contains code for training and evaluating both single-task online RL and multi-task offline RL TD-MPC**2** agents. We additionally open-source **300+** [model checkpoints](https://nicklashansen.github.io/td-mpc2/models) (including 12 multi-task models) across 4 task domains: [DMControl](https://arxiv.org/abs/1801.00690), [Meta-World](https://meta-world.github.io/), [ManiSkill2](https://maniskill2.github.io/), and [MyoSuite](https://sites.google.com/view/myosuite), as well as our [30-task and 80-task datasets](https://nicklashansen.github.io/td-mpc2/dataset) used to train the multi-task models. Our codebase supports both state and pixel observations. We hope that this repository will serve as a useful community resource for future research on model-based RL.

----

## Getting started

You will need a machine with a GPU and at least 12 GB of RAM for single-task online RL with TD-MPC**2**, and 128 GB of RAM for multi-task offline RL on our provided 80-task dataset. A GPU with at least 8 GB of memory is recommended for single-task online RL and for evaluation of the provided multi-task models (up to 317M parameters). Training of the 317M parameter model requires a GPU with at least 24 GB of memory.

We provide a `Dockerfile` for easy installation. You can build the docker image by running

```
cd docker && docker build . -t <user>/tdmpc2:0.1.0
```

If you prefer to install dependencies manually, start by installing dependencies via `conda` by running one of the following commands:

```
conda env create -f docker/environment.yaml
conda env create -f docker/environment_minimal.yaml
```

The `environment.yaml` file installs dependencies required for all environments, whereas `environment_minimal.yaml` only installs dependencies for training on DMControl tasks.

If you want to run ManiSkill2, you will additionally need to download and link the necessary assets by running

```
python -m mani_skill2.utils.download_asset all
```

which downloads assets to `./data`. You may move these assets to any location. Then, add the following line to your `~/.bashrc`:

```
export MS2_ASSET_DIR=<path>/<to>/<data>
```

and restart your terminal. Meta-World additionally requires MuJoCo 2.1.0. We host the unrestricted MuJoCo 2.1.0 license (courtesy of Google DeepMind) at [https://www.tdmpc2.com/files/mjkey.txt](https://www.tdmpc2.com/files/mjkey.txt). You can download the license by running

```
wget https://www.tdmpc2.com/files/mjkey.txt -O ~/.mujoco/mjkey.txt
```

See `docker/Dockerfile` for installation instructions if you do not already have MuJoCo 2.1.0 installed. MyoSuite requires `gym==0.13.0` which is incompatible with Meta-World and ManiSkill2. Install separately with `pip install myosuite` if desired. Depending on your existing system packages, you may need to install other dependencies. See `docker/Dockerfile` for a list of recommended system packages.

----

## Supported tasks

This codebase currently supports **104** continuous control tasks from **DMControl**, **Meta-World**, **ManiSkill2**, and **MyoSuite**. Specifically, it supports 39 tasks from DMControl (including 11 custom tasks), 50 tasks from Meta-World, 5 tasks from ManiSkill2, and 10 tasks from MyoSuite, and covers all tasks used in the paper. See below table for expected name formatting for each task domain:

| domain | task
| --- | --- |
| dmcontrol | dog-run
| dmcontrol | cheetah-run-backwards
| metaworld | mw-assembly
| metaworld | mw-pick-place-wall
| maniskill | pick-cube
| maniskill | pick-ycb
| myosuite  | myo-key-turn
| myosuite  | myo-key-turn-hard

which can be run by specifying the `task` argument for `evaluation.py`. Multi-task training and evaluation is specified by setting `task=mt80` or `task=mt30` for the 80-task and 30-task sets, respectively.

**As of Dec 27, 2023 the TD-MPC2 codebase also supports pixel observations for DMControl tasks**; use argument `obs=rgb` if you wish to train visual policies.


## Example usage

We provide examples on how to evaluate our provided TD-MPC**2** checkpoints, as well as how to train your own TD-MPC**2** agents, below.

### Evaluation

See below examples on how to evaluate downloaded single-task and multi-task checkpoints.

```
$ python evaluate.py task=mt80 model_size=48 checkpoint=/path/to/mt80-48M.pt
$ python evaluate.py task=mt30 model_size=317 checkpoint=/path/to/mt30-317M.pt
$ python evaluate.py task=dog-run checkpoint=/path/to/dog-1.pt save_video=true
```

All single-task checkpoints expect `model_size=5`. Multi-task checkpoints are available in multiple model sizes. Available arguments are `model_size={1, 5, 19, 48, 317}`. Note that single-task evaluation of multi-task checkpoints is currently not supported. See `config.yaml` for a full list of arguments.

### Training

See below examples on how to train TD-MPC**2** on a single task (online RL) and on multi-task datasets (offline RL). We recommend configuring [Weights and Biases](https://wandb.ai) (`wandb`) in `config.yaml` to track training progress.

```
$ python train.py task=mt80 model_size=48 batch_size=1024
$ python train.py task=mt30 model_size=317 batch_size=1024
$ python train.py task=dog-run steps=7000000
$ python train.py task=walker-walk obs=rgb
```

We recommend using default hyperparameters for single-task online RL, including the default model size of 5M parameters (`model_size=5`). Multi-task offline RL benefits from a larger model size, but larger models are also increasingly costly to train and evaluate. Available arguments are `model_size={1, 5, 19, 48, 317}`. See `config.yaml` for a full list of arguments.

**As of Jan 7, 2024 the TD-MPC2 codebase also supports multi-GPU training for multi-task offline RL experiments**; use branch `distributed` and argument `world_size=N` to train on `N` GPUs. We cannot guarantee that distributed training will yield the same results, but they appear to be similar based on our limited testing.

----

## Citation

If you find our work useful, please consider citing the paper as follows:

```
@misc{hansen2023tdmpc2,
	title={TD-MPC2: Scalable, Robust World Models for Continuous Control}, 
	author={Nicklas Hansen and Hao Su and Xiaolong Wang},
	year={2023},
	eprint={2310.16828},
	archivePrefix={arXiv},
	primaryClass={cs.LG}
}
```

----

## Contributing

You are very welcome to contribute to this project. Feel free to open an issue or pull request if you have any suggestions or bug reports, but please review our [guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) first. Our goal is to build a codebase that can easily be extended to new environments and tasks, and we would love to hear about your experience!

----

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the `LICENSE` file for details. Note that the repository relies on third-party code, which is subject to their respective licenses.
